README.md, before:

# 2048-PyTorch-DQN

Implementing [Deep Q-Network](https://deepmind.com/research/dqn/) with `PyTorch` to solve 2048. 
It supports both [DQN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5602) and [Double DQN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.06461).

#### Requirements
`NVIDIA GPU` and `CUDA`, of course...  and `PyTorch`, along with some others in `requirements.txt`


#### 2048

[2048](https://github.com/gabrielecirulli/2048) is a popular game by Gabriele Cirulli, 
and I am using a version of [gym](https://github.com/mllobet/gym-2048).

### How to use this...
One could rely on pure `explorations`, but `optimal moves` in `2048` are
`probabilistically speaking` not observed often enough, if played randomly. Therefore, use generated data,
which teach the `Q network` for better moves. Those generated data come from
the discussion [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22342854/what-is-the-optimal-algorithm-for-the-game-2048)

To generate data, run the following:

    $ python3 generate_replay_memory.py

To start the training, run the following:
    
    $ python3 train_dqn.py

![screenshot](img/2048.gif)


#### Result

##### Without training data:
After some training (of more than 6 hours with NVIDIA 1060), 
I have seen its performance getting not much better than complete random moves.

The current model has a weakness. The original scoring system in the game 
makes the agent unable to learn the essence of an `optimal move`. With the
original scoring system of 2048, it does not (probabilistically speaking)
see the value in `corners`; this will only make
sense to those who knows how to play 2048 well.
 
A solution to make the training go faster is to change the score system for the agent.
But this is not applicable to other games.
Another solution is to have a ridiculous amount of training hours... And hope it sees the
value in `corners`.

My final solution was to use `generated data` which has examples of reasonable moves.

##### With training data:

Commit message:

First version for c++ data-generation

README.md, after:

# 2048-PyTorch-DQN

Implementing [Deep Q-Network](https://deepmind.com/research/dqn/) with `PyTorch` to solve 2048. 
It supports both [DQN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1312.5602) and [Double DQN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.06461).

#### Requirements
`NVIDIA GPU` and `CUDA`, of course...  and `PyTorch`, along with some others in `requirements.txt`


#### 2048

[2048](https://github.com/gabrielecirulli/2048) is a popular game by Gabriele Cirulli, 
and I am using a version of [gym](https://github.com/mllobet/gym-2048).

### How to use this...
One could rely on pure `explorations`, but `optimal moves` in `2048` are
`probabilistically speaking` not observed often enough, if played randomly. Therefore, use generated data that teach the `Q network` for better moves. Those generated data come from
the discussion [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22342854/what-is-the-optimal-algorithm-for-the-game-2048) and [here](https://github.com/nneonneo/2048-ai).

To generate data, run the following:

    $ python3 generate_replay_memory_cpp.py

To start the training, run the following:
    
    $ python3 train_dqn.py

![screenshot](img/2048.gif)


#### Result

##### Without training data:
After some training (of more than 6 hours with NVIDIA 1060), 
I did not see much performance gain relative to random moves.

The original model had a weakness. The original scoring system in the game 
makes the agent unable to learn the essence of an `optimal move`. With the
original scoring system of 2048, it did not (probabilistically speaking)
see the value in `corners`; this will only make sense to those who knows how to play 2048.
 
A solution to make the training go faster was to change the score system for the agent.
But such is not applicable to other games.
Another solution was to have a ridiculous amount of training hours... And hope `DQN` sees the
value in `corners`.

tl;dr

`exploration` does not work in this case.
My final solution was to use `generated data` which has examples of reasonable moves.

##### With training data:
`python` version of generating data by `breadth-first-search` is horribly slow... So, I took
[C++ version](https://github.com/nneonneo/2048-ai) and modified some to suit my need.
